---
title: "Clustering Capstone"
date: 2021-04-08
tags: [data science, machine learning, python, r, clustering, k-means]
header:
  image: "/images/davis/student.png"
  
excerpt: "Recommendation Engine, Clustering, k-Means, Python, R"
mathjax: "true"
---

# College Recommendation Engine
A machine learning case study for unsupervised clustering.
<br>
<br>
Uses unsupervised learning to determine clusters of colleges. Given a specific school of interest, recommends others in the same cluster.
<br>
## Abstract
<br>
This project is catered to future and current college students and their parents.  As a parent of a prospective student, I noticed a lot of data in disparate systems with inconsistent results.  There are many resources to the point that it is overwhelming.
<br>
<br>
The intent of this project is to demonstrate a use case in unsupervised learning.  In it, you will see the problem defined and business objective set.  I will guide you through my research and methodologies, resulting in a usable recommendation engine.
<br>
## Data Source:
Scorecard data from the US Department of Education 
https://collegescorecard.ed.gov/data/
<br>
## Introduction
One of the greatest challenges faced by high school students and their parents is selecting a college.  This is perhaps the first major decision in a young person’s life.  It can also be the most costly.  Like any big decision, it is imperative to perform research and not come to a hasty resolution.
<br>
<br>
There is a cornucopia of available information on colleges and universities in the Unites States.  There are many search engines available online.  For example, PrepScholar (n.d.) is a great resource to find out what your chances are at getting accepted into a school.  Just enter your standardized test score and grade point average, and voila, your likelihood of acceptance is presented.  However, just because you can be accepted into a school, doesn’t mean it is the best school for you.  Many sites either prompt you for too little or too much information.  Demographic information on colleges may be easy to obtain, but it should not be the focus of your college selection.  
<br>
The College Board provides a student search engine that has a lot of parameters (“Finding Your College Fit”, n.d.).  Unfortunately, registering for this search engine, or even the SAT, will place you on a lot of mailing lists.  Students and parents are bombarded with emails and mailings, which often end up getting tossed and deleted.  This excessive information builds both anticipation and anxiety, which leaves everyone overwhelmed.  
<br>
So, how do you find a college that fits your student?  A good source for students to get a peek into academic programs and student life is Fiske’s Guide to Colleges (Fiske, 2019).  It includes both pros and cons, as well as student interviews.  However, after polling dozens who have recently gone through the college selection process, the best method is to visit a campus, meet with a teacher and student, learn about their programs, and get a “feel” for the school.  Wow, that’s time consuming, and it limits you to a handful of schools that you can see. 
<br>
What about the thousands of other schools?  I propose that if you find one school you really like, there should be a list of similar schools available.  This will give you just a handful of colleges to investigate.
<br>
<br>
<a href="https://github.com/amodavis/College_Recommendation_Engine">Project Link</a>

<br>
<br>
Image by <a href="https://pixabay.com/users/jeshoots-com-264599/?utm_source=link-attribution&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_campaign=image&amp;utm_content=3087585">Jan Vašek</a> from <a href="https://pixabay.com/?utm_source=link-attribution&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_campaign=image&amp;utm_content=3087585">Pixabay</a>

